vod doc rough draft init (#1074)
livepeer/livepeer.com: packages/www/docs/guides/upload-a-video/index.mdx

---
title: Upload a Video
description: Livepeer's Upload a Video Guide
metaTitle: Upload a Video Guide - Livepeer.com
metaDescription: Livepeer's Upload a Video Guide
---

# Upload a Video

This tutorial covers how to upload the video to Livepeer to allow viewers to
playback stored video assets in your application.

## Caveats

> - Have to manually check the status of the file using `List Task` method to see

Reviewer: I still think this is a funny thing to ask a developer to do -- we should either tell readers that we're currently working on webhooks (which feels like the obvious thing that users are going to want) or give them instructions to do polling. @victorges thoughts on this?

If we decide that this okay, it needs to be rephrased: `Currently, users need to manually check the status of the file using List Task method (described below) to see if uploads have been completed. We're currently working on webhooks to make this easier for users.`

Reviewer 2: Agreed! I don't think this is a caveat worth noting here as a big issue in the flow. It's just how things work for now while we don't have a more sophisticated interface. Webhooks will be nicer for communicating the state to a backend, but it won't make much of a difference for users building only a frontend (or simpler backends without custom state) anyway.

Also agree that we **must** provide instructions for polling along this guide. Can also link to the `video-nft` SDK (that needs rebranding) for an example on how to wait for a task to finish: https://github.com/livepeer/video-nft/blob/4e24bd46a884f7a0c23fe23b233cfd0c9a3bafad/src/minter.ts#L480

We can also create a simple `gist` or code snippet for that using axios.

update

```json
{
  "id": "8b0cd796-8be1-412b-b1dc-8251a35ad2e7",
  "type": "export",
  "output": {
    "export": {
      "ipfs": {
        "videoFileCid": "QmaMvRNEwvCHuwEZjX9NzFTJtBUrbk7j5D7ngP8xATHwXK",
        "nftMetadataCid": "QmaY8HqYV3kVxwsCQahMYisQiZnjZg2bRVjb6XspTmYMFi",
        "videoFileUrl": "ipfs://QmaMvRNEwvCHuwEZjX9NzFTJtBUrbk7j5D7ngP8xATHwXK",
        "videoFileGatewayUrl": "https://ipfs.livepeer.com/ipfs/QmaMvRNEwvCHuwEZjX9NzFTJtBUrbk7j5D7ngP8xATHwXK",
        "nftMetadataUrl": "ipfs://QmaY8HqYV3kVxwsCQahMYisQiZnjZg2bRVjb6XspTmYMFi",
        "nftMetadataGatewayUrl": "https://ipfs.livepeer.com/ipfs/QmaY8HqYV3kVxwsCQahMYisQiZnjZg2bRVjb6XspTmYMFi"
      }
    }
  },
  "params": {
    "export": {
      "ipfs": {}
    }
  },
  "status": {
    "phase": "completed",
    "updatedAt": 1652903908984
  },
  "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
  "createdAt": 1652903903963,
  "inputAssetId": "87289307-b60f-432b-984a-8ede174fa152"
}
```

### **List Tasks**

When listing tasks, the response will provide information on imported or
exported information on the asset

Use the list tasks method to get CID and metadata

> To Get the CID and metadata URL for the asset that was just exported,  you can

Reviewer: Change to 

To get the CID and metadata URL for the new, just created asset, retrieve the task until it is completed. To do this, check the **status** field in the response. This finished task will have an output with all the information about that asst, and the CID information is located under the `output.export.ipfs` path.

---
title: Upload a Video
description: Livepeer's Upload a Video Guide
metaTitle: Upload a Video Guide - Livepeer.com
metaDescription: Livepeer's Upload a Video Guide
---

# Upload a Video

This tutorial covers how to upload the video to Livepeer to allow viewers to

> playback stored video assets in your application.

Reviewer 2: I think the writing could be greatly improved here. The [Mux API documentation](https://docs.mux.com/guides/video/stream-video-files) is often a great resource on how we could present some of these concepts, and is in fact the inspiration for many of our doc content here.

I believe you should also think of this as an introduction to the VOD API in general, since this will be the only non-API reference piece in our docs for now.

As an example, I think this will make this introduction cleaner and clearer:

```suggestion
The Video-on-Demand (VOD) API allows you to send video files to Livepeer and get them ready for optimized playback. This tutorial covers how to use it to upload videos and play them back in your application. 

Those videos can be provided either by you (static content) or your users, given your application offers an interface for them to do so.
```

## Caveats

- Have to manually check the status of the file using `List Task` method to see
  if it has finished uploading.
- File size is limited to 1GB. Any files greater than 1GB will error with

>   NETWORK CHANGED.

Reviewer 2: I'm not aware of this error and do not believe that it will always error out with that. Would rephrase with
```suggestion
- Files are currently limited to 1GB in size. Any files greater than that will likely error out during the upload or processing steps.
```

- Only MP4 files encoded with H.264 and AAC are supported.

> ## Installation
> 
> - Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
> - Install package manager with
>   [NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/install) or
>   [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#mac-stable)
> - Install [Axios](https://axios-http.com/)
>   - Using npm
>   ```bash
>   npm axios
>   ```
>   - Using yarn
>   ```bash
>   yarn add axios
>   ```
> - Get a
>   [Livepeer Video Service API key](https://livepeer.com/docs/guides/start-live-streaming/api-key)

Reviewer 2: I think all these steps are unnecessary. This is a technical documentation for developers getting started with the VOD API. If they are using JavaScript, they already have `node` and a package manager and know how to use it. I'd just make a remark here that we will be using Node and `axios` so they can install it on their projects (IMO don't need to teach them how to do it either).

This guide is also inside the "Livepeer Video Services" website, so we should not keep repeating that. It's very verbose/cumbersome to read so it's better to avoid it.

```suggestion
## Dependencies

In this tutorial, we will be using [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [Axios](https://axios-http.com/) so make sure to set that up in your project. You will also need to [Get an API key](https://livepeer.com/docs/guides/start-live-streaming/api-key) to call the VOD API.
```

> ## Assets

Reviewer 2: I don't think this section name makes sense.

There are two methods to upload a video to Livepeer:

- Upload via URL, with an `.mp4` file format

> - Upload locally

Reviewer 2: We only support MP4 everywhere, and the caveat has already been made in the beginning. No need to reemphasize it here and only in one of the methods.

Can also improve the wording:
```suggestion
- Import from a URL

- Directly upload from a local file
```
(we theoretically wanted to use "upload" on both cases but I don't really think it makes sense... The API is still called `/import` anyway so it will be confusing not to use that here. @pglowacky do you really think we need to call it upload here? If so let me know and I can rename the API as well)

> ### Upload from URL

Reviewer 2: Should be consistent with how we call the steps in the beginning here

When using the `upload via URL` method:

- Provide the name of the asset

> - Provide the URL link of the asset that is to be downloaded

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Provide the URL of the asset that should be imported
```

> JS + axios

Reviewer 2: I would just call this `JavaScript`. We already made the disclaim in the beginning that we will be using `axios`.

> ```jsx

Reviewer 2: Isn't this just `js`?

const axios = require('axios');

axios.post("https://livepeer.com/api/asset/import", {
  headers: {
    'Authorization': 'Bearer {api_key}',
    'Content-Type': 'application/json'
  },
    data: JSON.stringify({
      "url": "$EXTERNAL_URL",
      "name": "Example name"
    })
  }
})
.then(res => {
  console.log(JSON.stringify(res.data))
})

> .catch(error => console.log(error))

Reviewer 2: I think we can provide some cleaner code here using `async/await` constructs. Can make it a function if you're worried users will try to run it on a non-async-await environment. Applies to all other JS snippets.

```suggestion
const axios = require('axios');

async function importAsset(name, url) {
	const res = await axios.post('https://livepeer.com/api/asset/import', {
		headers: {
			Authorization: 'Bearer {api_key}',
			'Content-Type': 'application/json'
		},
		data: JSON.stringify({ url, name })
	});
	const { asset, task } = res.data;
	return { asset, task };
}

importAsset('Example name', '$EXTERNAL_URL').then(console.log, console.error);
```

Also, might omit the `require('axios')` as well if we can assume users will already do it only once in their source files.

Reviewer 2: Actually, this doesn't even "compile"...
![Screen Shot 2022-06-01 at 20 41 35](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1613383/171519078-973391ae-ff01-4ad1-92f0-8f804dcc62e1.png)

```

Response

```json
{
  "asset": {
    "id": "87289307-b60f-432b-984a-8ede174fa152",
    "playbackId": "8728n2iaziowj67d",
    "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
    "createdAt": 1652894665364,
    "status": "waiting",
    "name": "Waterfall"
  },
  "task": {
    "id": "77588656-ab08-4dd2-a244-0ff8df7ce664",
    "createdAt": 1652894665451,
    "type": "import",
    "outputAssetId": "87289307-b60f-432b-984a-8ede174fa152",
    "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
    "params": {
      "import": {
        "url": "https://www.pexels.com/video/6394054/download/"
      }
    },
    "status": {
      "phase": "pending",
      "updatedAt": 1652894665451
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: These example JSONs are taking most of the space in the guide. I'm not sure if it's worth including them as they don't add a lot of useful information.

These probably belong in the API reference instead. I'd say you can move the examples to the corresponding API reference and link to the reference doc here.

> _Note that the status is `pending`, it might take a few minutes for it to be
> imported. To verify that the status is `ready`, use
> `https://livepeer.com/api/asset/$ASSET_ID/` with the provided `asset.id` in

> > the response above_.

Reviewer 2: This is a crucial step of the "adding a video file" process and should not be just a note, as Paige suggested.

Ideally we should also provide a snippet on how to wait for a task, which can be copied (and adapted) from the `video-nft` SDK. Bonus if it can also have the `reportProgress` function which can be used to update an UI with the progress etc.

Response

> ```json

Reviewer 2: Same, I don't think these are worth it.

{
  "id": "87289307-b60f-432b-984a-8ede174fa152",
  "hash": [
    {
      "hash": "6dad0a8e7a92d537c6305fe6ae1e1881",
      "algorithm": "md5"
    },
    {
      "hash": "6132f4e43472b56b4047b7ad018147056c0c2dba9306cd04504e9c8208e72257",
      "algorithm": "sha256"
    }
  ],
  "name": "Waterfall",
  "size": 32407849,
  "status": "ready",
  "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
  "createdAt": 1652894665364,
  "updatedAt": 1652894675275,
  "videoSpec": {
    "format": "mp4",
    "tracks": [
      {
        "fps": 23.976023976023978,
        "type": "video",
        "codec": "h264",
        "width": 4096,
        "height": 2048,
        "bitrate": 21324821,
        "duration": 12.011667,
        "pixelFormat": "yuv420p"
      },
      {
        "type": "audio",
        "codec": "aac",
        "bitrate": 253375,
        "channels": 2,
        "duration": 12.031667,
        "sampleRate": 48000
      }
    ],
    "duration": 12.031667
  },
  "playbackId": "8728n2iaziowj67d",
  "playbackUrl": "https://livepeercdn.com/recordings/e605988e-e8d3-4e14-b5b0-10b01ff94a8b/index.m3u8",
  "downloadUrl": "https://livepeercdn.com/asset/8728n2iaziowj67d/video"
}
```

> ### Upload Locally

Reviewer 2: Should also match the enumeration of the method in the beginning, if you change that.

When using the `upload locally` method, this is a two-step process:

> _Only MP4 files encoded with H.264 and AAC are supported_

> _File size limited to 1GB. Any files greater than 1GB will error with NETWORK

> > CHANGED_

Reviewer 2: We already have both of these in the beginning of the doc.

## Step 1

### Generate the URL to upload assets

JS + axios

```jsx
const axios = require("axios");

axios
  .post("https://livepeer.com/api/asset/request-upload", {
    headers: {

>       Authorization: "Bearer {api_key}",

Reviewer 2: Will be better to use actual JavaScript syntax here that users can simply add some env var later or something like that to make it work. e.g.:
```suggestion
      Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.LP_API_KEY}`,
```

Applies to all other snippets using API keys.

      "Content-Type": "application/json",
    },
    data: JSON.stringify({
      name: "Example name",
    }),
  })
  .then((res) => {
    console.log(JSON.stringify(res.data));
  })

>   .catch((error) => console.log(error));

Reviewer 2: This one compiles 😄 

I think it would be better using async/await as well though.

  "asset": {
    "id": "4c21895e-2488-4c0a-9377-3369ff586ddd",
    "playbackId": "4c21k7z2tjcdg8wt",
    "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
    "createdAt": 1652901725324,
    "status": "waiting",
    "name": "Waterfall"
  },
  "task": {
    "id": "58a9b4dc-89d8-40f5-8372-cacaec49024b",
    "createdAt": 1652901725741,
    "type": "import",
    "outputAssetId": "4c21895e-2488-4c0a-9377-3369ff586ddd",
    "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
    "params": {
      "import": {
        "uploadedObjectKey": "directUpload/4c21k7z2tjcdg8wt/source"
      }
    },
    "status": {
      "phase": "pending",
      "updatedAt": 1652901725741
    }
  }
}
```

## Step 2

Upload the asset to the generated URL

> - Get the `“url”: “https://origin.livepeer.com/api/assets/…“` from the response.

Reviewer 2: The URL will not always be like this. The user should not have any logic regarding what that URL should look like, they should just use it as a destination for the `PUT` with the file content. As such, I wouldn't include the URL format in this instruction.

```suggestion
- Get the `url` field from the response above.
```

> - Check the status of the generated url.
> 
>   - _`https://livepeer.com/api/asset/$ASSET_ID/` with provided asset.id_
> 
>   ```json
>   {
>     "id": "4c21895e-2488-4c0a-9377-3369ff586ddd",
>     "name": "Waterfall",
>     "status": "waiting",
>     "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
>     "createdAt": 1652895834393,
>     "playbackId": "4c21k7z2tjcdg8wt"
>   }
>   ```

Reviewer 2: This is not necessary here.
```suggestion
```

- Upload the video

JS + axios

```jsx
// 2) Upload the contents

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

axios
  .put("${url}", {
    headers: {
      "Content-Type": "video/mp4",
    },
    data: "@$VIDEO_FILE_PATH",
  })
  .then((res) => {
    console.log(JSON.stringify(res.data));
  })

>   .catch((error) => console.log(error));

Reviewer 2: These code snippets will be much more useful if they build on top of each other. So instead of building independent snippets that can only be run like a script that gets all input from templated vars, the first snippet in this process should populate an `url` variable which is then used here.

The video file should also not be sent as a string. If the idea is to read from a file, you should include here the code that opens a file and sends it as the `axios` request payload. This can be as simple as `fs.createReadStream(path)` and sending that as the request `data`.

Also same regarding using async/await for cleanliness.

```

Response

- When the video is uploaded, the result should return a 200 response
- Use the `https://livepeer.com/api/asset/$ASSET_ID/` with the provided
  asset.id\* to check that the video is uploaded, the status should be

>   `"status": "ready"`

Reviewer 2: Do not need to repeat this on both methods of uploading a file.

IMO should instead: 
 - introduce the "asset" and "task" resource types in the beginning of the documentation (around the current `## Assets` section)
 - Explain that adding a video file is an asynchronous process that requires processing the file. Because of that, we will first explain how to send the data to the API and then how to track the progress of the processing
 - in each of the methods, specify _when_ should the code grab the `asset` and `task` references/IDs (on the response of `/import` and `/request-upload`)
 - After both methods, explain how to monitor the progress of the tasks and then grab the final imported asset.

            "algorithm": "sha256"
          }
        ],
        "name": "pexels-peter-fowler-6394054.mp4",
        "size": 32407849,
        "type": "video",
        "videoSpec": {
          "format": "mp4",
          "tracks": [
            {
              "fps": 23.976023976023978,
              "type": "video",
              "codec": "h264",
              "width": 4096,
              "height": 2048,
              "bitrate": 21324821,
              "duration": 12.011667,
              "pixelFormat": "yuv420p"
            },
            {
              "type": "audio",
              "codec": "aac",
              "bitrate": 253375,
              "channels": 2,
              "duration": 12.031667,
              "sampleRate": 48000
            }
          ],
          "duration": 12.031667
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "params": {
    "import": {
      "url": "https://www.pexels.com/video/6394054/download/"
    }
  },
  "status": {
    "phase": "completed",
    "updatedAt": 1652894675639
  },
  "userId": "eada599f-3d58-499b-ba24-c7f3faf988de",
  "createdAt": 1652894665451,
  "outputAssetId": "87289307-b60f-432b-984a-8ede174fa152"
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think any of these belong in this guide. We can create proper API references for those (including request/response examples) in the API reference (and maybe link to them here), but they should not be part of a "upload a video" tutorial (which is also the only VOD guide).

I think all this should be replaced with the part of the guide that teaches how to monitor the progress of an upload instead.
